{"add":{"doc":{"id":"3a7f72395d99fdfc5a37302acad146c9ca9d1f9bd1ca17b926441dcb87188a1d","url":"https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/68/Harrisonwhite.jpg/150px-Harrisonwhite.jpg","previous":["The sociology of change and development attempts to understand how societies develop and how they can be changed. Within this field, sociologists often use macrosociological methods or historical-comparative methods. In contemporary studies of social change, there is overlaps with international development or community development. However, most of the founders of sociology had theories of social change based on their study of history. For instance, Marx contended that the material circumstances of society ultimately caused the ideal or cultural aspects of society, while Weber argued that it was in fact the cultural mores of Protestantism that ushered in a transformation of material circumstances. In contrast to both, Durkheim argued that societies moved from simple to complex through a process of sociocultural evolution. Sociologists in this field also study processes of globalisation and imperialism. Most notably, Immanuel Wallerstein extends Marx's theoretical frame to include large spans of time and the entire globe in what is known as world systems theory. Development sociology is also heavily influenced by post-colonialism. In recent years, Raewyn Connell issued a critique of the bias in sociological research toward countries in the Global North. She argues that this bias blinds sociologists to the lived experiences of the Global South, specifically, so-called, \"Northern Theory\" lacks an adequate theory of imperialism and colonialism."],"after":["A social network is a social structure composed of individuals (or organisations) called \"nodes\", which are tied (connected) by one or more specific types of interdependency, such as friendship, kinship, financial exchange, dislike, sexual relationships, or relationships of beliefs, knowledge or prestige. Social networks operate on many levels, from families up to the level of nations, and play a critical role in determining the way problems are solved, organisations are run, and the degree to which individuals succeed in achieving their goals. An underlying theoretical assumption of social network analysis is that groups are not necessarily the building blocks of society: the approach is open to studying less-bounded social systems, from non-local communities to networks of exchange. Drawing theoretically from relational sociology, social network analysis avoids treating individuals (persons, organisations, states) as discrete units of analysis, it focuses instead on how the structure of ties affects and constitutes individuals and their relationships. In contrast to analyses that assume that socialisation into norms determines behaviour, network analysis looks to see the extent to which the structure and composition of ties affect norms. On the other hand, recent research by Omar Lizardo also demonstrates that network ties are shaped and created by previously existing cultural tastes.[154] Social network theory is usually defined in formal mathematics and may include integration of geographical data into Sociomapping."]}}}