{"add":{"doc":{"id":"7e5119dfc25caf2444ec0c174814dfb9885d6e442a6261da9dccf4e7dbe151e2","url":"https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/5/57/SaskEmblem.gif/80px-SaskEmblem.gif","previous":[],"after":["","Saskatchewan, a province of the Dominion of Canada lying west of Manitoba and having Alberta on the west, North West Territories on the north and the United States on the south. The province is a vast plain, greater portion of its southern two thirds is situated in the great wheat-growing belt. The portion adjoining or lying near to Manitoba possesses much of the characteristics of that province as to soil, topography, climate, rainfall and, consequently, productive adaptabilities. The soil is a friable loam, easily worked and producing excellent crops of wheat, coarse grains and vegetables. The winter climate answers all requirements, both as to degree of cold and as to sufficiency of snowfall, for the production of the No. 1, hard wheat for which Western Canada is now noted. The valleys along Saskatchewan, Qu’Appelle, Assiniboine and Souris Rivers, Pipestone, Long and other creeks, are specially adapted for mixed farming, and the open prairie beyond affords large areas for grazing or grain-growing. Regina is the capital of the province situated in the southern area, the land here is a rich, fertile loam, as well to the south as to the north. The cultivation of flax is carried on to a considerable extent. Wheat-raising, however, is the important industry of this district, and the yields are highly satisfactory to the producer. Between Regina and Moose Jaw there is splendid land, and mostly occupied by prosperous farmers. The central portion of the province is almost centrally divided by the main Saskatchewan River, which is altogether within the district, and by its principal branch, the North Saskatchewan — most of the navigable length of which lies within its boundaries. It includes, in the south, a small proportion of the great plains, and in its general superficial features may be described as a mixed prairie and wooded region, abounding in water and natural hay and well-suited by climate and soil for the raising of wheat, cattle and sheep. As a general thing, the surface is gently undulating prairie. Adapted from The New Student's Reference Work (1914) (Saskatchewan (province)"]}}}